Alright! In this video we are going to
take a look at dependency injection. We
are going to do it manually and what I'm
going to do is step you through some
examples. Giving some realistic example
where we have controllers. We're
gonna inject a service into those
controllers. It's simple Hello World
service but we're going to do dependency
injection on it and we're going to mimic
what Spring does in the
background. I want you to see some
hands-on stuff. By doing this, we're going to
use JUnit which is when you start
developing Spring applications it's
actually kind of common to do because
you will be using JUnit to write your
unit tests in and then we'll also be
using those same classes and allowing
Spring to manage them. So I'm going kind of
mimic what you do in real-world spring
development here but the focus of this
is to get your hands on and have you
start understanding the dependency
injection . We're focusing purely on
dependency injection and we're going to
use JUnit for our runtime so we are
going to kind of behave like the Spring
Framework and do the dependency
injection ourself. We're going to
look at property based dependency
injection, also setter based dependency
injection, and then finally constructor
based dependency injection. We will
follow for the most part using
interfaces which is really a best
practice for dependency injection. Okay,
I've created some code here to
help us step through manual dependency
injection and later will convert this
over and let's Spring manage it. But for
now, we're going to just walk through the
example I've created. It's pretty simple
stuff. What I have here on the screen
right now is a you can see on line 10
their property injected controller. So
this is an example. I'm doing everything
wrong in this one. We definitely don't
want to be doing property injection. But
I have a public property called greeting
service implementation. Let me take a
quick look at the greeting service
implementation. You can see that this is
a service that I marked with the Spring
Framework Service annotation saying that
it's a component but we're not going to
be running Spring right now. It does
implement the greeting service. You see
I've got a static string. This as Hello
Gurus.
It just returns that string. So not a
lot of brains in this guy but it's
perfect for our demonstration purposes.
And then I had the greeting service
interface so the server impl
implements the interface. Now, the
property injected controller, I'm using
this as an example of everything not to
do. I do have a public greeting service
Impl. I am doing the hard class
name or the concrete class name, some
people say. So that is not the interface
but this will still get wired up
properly and when we call the
greeting service which I only need. I'm
going to nuke that getter there. We don't
even need that. So let's get rid of him.
I was doing this in it. I think IntelliJ
refactored it on me. Because it doesn't like you
doing bad things like this.
I just had to
do that. Nope. C'mon IntelliJ.
There. So I just need to do that property
there. I got rid of the getter, so. Now I
have no getters or setters. This is a
case study of everything not to
do. So the next one I have is the getter
injected controller and let's take a
look. Hey, guys quick call out here. I made
a mistake when I was recording this
video and I called it a getter injected
controller. It should have been setter
injected controller. So that was a typo of mine here. I have updated the source code
inside a github but the video is still
reflecting a getter injected controller
that should be setter injected
controller. So sorry about the confusion
but the source code is updated. If you
look inside a github, you will not find a
getter injected controller but you will
find a setter injected controller. So
sorry about the typo there but I have
updated the source code for you. Look at
that one, almost the same. But now I have
a private property for the greeting
server Impl. That's still bad to do
the implementation of that. So what I'm
going to do. So if your not familiar with
IntelliJ, you can come in here and do a
refactor and do a type migration. All
I want to do is get rid of that Impl.
So now this is better because we're
using the interface so any class
that implements that interface will now
be injected there.
This here actually should also be
that.
So now that the setter will accept that.
The property is that. So everything's
happy now and again this will get. We can
create the class and then set the
greeting service and when
we say hello, the greeting service
will get invoked. And then finally, we
have the constructor injected. Now let's
take a quick look at that. Same problem
here. Let's refactor that.
We want the constructor take in the
interface.
So if you can see now this has
a public constructor. I'll take that
in and then we have the method sayHello
again to say that out. So let's take a
look at these under unit tests. So what
we're going to do in this is we're going
to use JUnit to test these. So I have a
JUnit class here and I have a private
property for the property injected
controller. So remember this is the one
that we're doing everything bad with. And
here we have the setup method inside of
JUnit. On line 18 there, now we
create a new property controller then on
line 19 we instantiate a new greeting
service implementation. And when I run
this we can see that it runs just fine.
So that you can see down at the bottom
there that that did pass. Now let's take
a look at the getter and getter one. So
in this case again, very similar. You
can see there on the before method on
16 to 20. On line 18 there,
we do a new instance of the controller
and then we use the setter to set it so
that's what we mean by setter based
dependency injections. We're acting
like a Spring Framework right now and
injecting it manually inside of our test.
You can see that I have the test
here so let's go ahead and run that.
That's all green. And then finally, this
is the constructor based. What we have
here again is a private property and
then you can see our setup method does
change because what we're doing is we
have our constructor injected controller.
We create a new instance of it and this
time we have a constructor that we have
to give it the greeting service. So I'm
just doing a new there in line to create
that greeting service implementation. I
am using the implementation there.
You can see this by using the
constructor based injection, there's
no way I can create that class without
having providing it the proper or I
should say a proper a implementation of
a greeting service. So that's why
people prefer constructor based
injection so I can't create that up and
mess it up, contrast that with the getter.
In theory, what happens there on line 18,
I've created that object. That object
is now instantiated and if I comment
this out, it's going to comment that out.
Now if I run this, I should get an NPE
or a Null Pointer Error.
This is exactly what will happen. So
if you have an unsatisfied dependency. So
the dependency injection didn't happen.
Now you're getting a null pointer error.
So we'll comment this back. Uncomment
that and we'll run it again. Get back in
the green.
And now you can see here on line 17
there's no way that I can create that
controller without providing it the
dependency so that null pointer that we
just saw is an impossible situation.
You can see that all my tests are
green. And my impossible situation there.
Some people argue that the framework
itself so if you have a dependency that
you've told Spring to inject, you will
get a runtime error. So by using
constructor base, you're ensuring it
through object-oriented principles.
Some people argue for method based
because the framework is managing all
the objects and if for some reason an
object is not available to be injected,
the framework will fail at runtime. So
you kind of get the same effect so
that's why that there's a lot of
debate in the community about which to
use. But current trends, constructor based
is definitely preferred. Alright, you
can see how dependency injection works
now how we alleviated those dependencies
out of the controller classes and we
used an external program to inject those
dependencies so that external program is
determining the dependencies to inject
into our classes and then we are running
unit tests on those to get back the
right results. So we can see that
actually working. I went through
there and I showed you why setter based
dependency injection is not always
preferred because I was able to mimic
out where we didn't set that dependency
and we went to run our class and we've
got a NullPointerException and this is
exactly what's going to happen. You will
see this sometimes when you're running
Spring and doing things with Spring,
you'll forget to annotate a class or set
a dependency as far as the configuration
goes and then you go to run it and
you'll get a null pointer here. So
something that you'll definitely see as
you get further down the road with
Spring. So it's not. Doesn't prevent you
from doing stupid things, but it's a
pretty pretty simple thing to recover
from. As you can see, I got the NPE. Went
in. Dependency is missing so I need to
provide that dependency. So that pops out
pretty quickly especially when you're
doing setter based dependency injection.